new TogglePassword component (#1000)
symfony/ux: src/TogglePassword/doc/index.rst

in Symfony Forms. It is part of `the Symfony UX initiative`_.

It allows visitors to switch the type of password field to text and vice versa.

Installation
------------

Before you start, make sure you have `StimulusBundle configured in your app`_.

Then, install this bundle using Composer and Symfony Flex:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/ux-toggle-password

If you're using WebpackEncore, install your assets and restart Encore (not
needed if you're using AssetMapper):

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ npm install --force
    $ npm run watch

    # or use yarn
    $ yarn install --force
    $ yarn watch

Usage
-----

The most common usage of Symfony UX TogglePassword is to use it as a drop-in
replacement of the native PasswordType class::

    // ...
    use Symfony\UX\TogglePassword\Form\TogglePasswordType;

    class CredentialFormType extends AbstractType
    {
        public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
        {
            $builder
                // ...
                ->add('password', TogglePasswordType::class)
                // ...
            ;

>         }

Reviewer: This part should be updated since you switched to a form extension :)

Author: Yes, i wanted to implement translation support first before updating doc 👍🏼 but i might do that first

Author: Documentation updated 👍🏼  (will do another update once translation support and button classlist customization will be updated 😄 )

        // ...
    }

Customizing labels
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Symfony UX TogglePassword uses english by default on labels label for the toggle button.
> You can customize them by passing a ``hidden_label``  or a ``visible_label`` option to the field::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Symfony UX TogglePassword uses English by default for the toggle button's labels.
You can customize them by passing a ``hidden_label`` or a ``visible_label`` option to the field::
```

    // ...
    use Symfony\UX\TogglePassword\Form\TogglePasswordType;

    class CredentialFormType extends AbstractType
    {
        public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
        {
            $builder
                // ...
                ->add('password', TogglePasswordType::class, [
                    'hidden_label' => 'Masquer',
                    'visible_label' => 'Afficher',
                ])
                // ...
            ;

>         }

Reviewer: This part should be updated since you switched to a form extension :)

        // ...
    }

You can also pass those options fields directly from the Twig template (and use translation)::

    {{ form_row(form.password, {
        'hidden_label': 'password_hide'|trans,
        'visible_label': 'password_show'|trans,
    }) }}

Customizing the design
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Symfony UX TogglePassword provides a default stylesheet in order to ease
usage. You can disable it to add your own design if you wish.

In ``assets/controllers.json``, disable the default stylesheet by
switching the ``@symfony/ux-toggle-password/dist/style.min.css`` autoimport to
``false``:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "controllers": {
            "@symfony/ux-toggle-password": {
                "toggle-password": {
                    "enabled": true,
                    "fetch": "eager",
                    "autoimport": {
                        "@symfony/ux-toggle-password/dist/style.min.css": false
                    }
                }
            }
        },
        "entrypoints": []
    }

.. note::

   *Note*: you should put the value to ``false`` and not remove the line

>    so that Symfony Flex won’t try to add the line again in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   so that Symfony Flex won't try to add the line again in the future.
```

> Once done, the default stylesheet won’t be used anymore and you can
> implement your own CSS on top of the TogglePassword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once done, the default stylesheet won't be used anymore and you can
implement your own CSS on top of the TogglePassword.
```

> Extend the default behavior

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extend the Default Behavior
```

        connect() {
            this.element.addEventListener('toggle-password:connect', this._onConnect);
            this.element.addEventListener('toggle-password:toggle', this._onToggle);
        }

        disconnect() {
            // You should always remove listeners when the controller is disconnected to avoid side-effects
            this.element.removeEventListener('toggle-password:connect', this._onConnect);
            this.element.removeEventListener('toggle-password:toggle', this._onToggle);
        }

        _onConnect(event) {
            // The TogglePassword was just created
        }

        _onToggle(event) {
            // The TogglePassword input has just been toggled
        }
    }

Then in your form, add your controller as an HTML attribute::

    // ...
    use Symfony\UX\TogglePassword\Form\TogglePasswordType;

    class CredentialFormType extends AbstractType
    {
        public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
        {
            $builder
                // ...
                ->add('password', TogglePasswordType::class, [
                    'attr' => ['data-controller' => 'my-toggle-password'],

>                 ])

Reviewer: This part should be updated since you switched to a form extension :)

It allows visitors to switch the type of password field to text and vice versa.

Installation
------------

Before you start, make sure you have `StimulusBundle configured in your app`_.

Then, install this bundle using Composer and Symfony Flex:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/ux-toggle-password

If you're using WebpackEncore, install your assets and restart Encore (not
needed if you're using AssetMapper):

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ npm install --force
    $ npm run watch

    # or use yarn
    $ yarn install --force
    $ yarn watch

Usage
-----

Any ``PasswordType`` can be transformed into a toggle password field by adding the ``toggle`` option::

    // ...
    use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\PasswordType;

    class CredentialFormType extends AbstractType
    {
        public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
        {
            $builder
                // ...
                ->add('password', PasswordType::class, ['toggle' => true])
                // ...
            ;
        }

        // ...
    }

Customizing labels and icons
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Symfony UX TogglePassword uses English by default and svg icons from `Heroicons`_ for the toggle button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Symfony UX TogglePassword uses English by default and SVG icons from `Heroicons`_ for the toggle button.
```

> You can customize them by passing a ``hidden_label``, ``visible_label``, ``hidden_icon``, or a ``visible_icon`` option
> to the field (use ``null`` to disable label or icon)::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize them by passing ``hidden_label``, ``visible_label``, ``hidden_icon`` and ``visible_icon`` options
to the field (use ``null`` to disable label or icon)::
```

Reviewer: Maybe specify that the labels are translated by default, and that one can pass a TranslatableMessage instance?

Also, I'm wondering if there should be a `toggle_translation_domain` when TranslatableMessage is not used for some reason (also, could help disabling translating the labels if set to `false` like it's done with the `choice_translation_domain` for the ChoiceType).

Author: Interesting, i like this 👍🏼 i'm on it

                    'hidden_icon' => null,
                ])
                // ...
            ;
        }

        // ...
    }

Customizing the design
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Symfony UX TogglePassword provides a default stylesheet in order to ease
usage. You can disable it to add your own design if you wish.

In ``assets/controllers.json``, disable the default stylesheet by
switching the ``@symfony/ux-toggle-password/dist/style.min.css`` autoimport to
``false``:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "controllers": {
            "@symfony/ux-toggle-password": {
                "toggle-password": {
                    "enabled": true,
                    "fetch": "eager",
                    "autoimport": {
                        "@symfony/ux-toggle-password/dist/style.min.css": false
                    }
                }
            }
        },
        "entrypoints": []
    }

.. note::

   *Note*: you should put the value to ``false`` and not remove the line
   so that Symfony Flex won't try to add the line again in the future.

Once done, the default stylesheet won't be used anymore and you can
implement your own CSS on top of the TogglePassword.

> You can also only customize specific TogglePassword elements by overriding the defaults classes used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also only customize specific TogglePassword elements by overriding the default classes.
```

Symfony UX TogglePassword
=========================

Symfony UX TogglePassword is a Symfony bundle providing visibility toggle for password inputs
in Symfony Forms. It is part of `the Symfony UX initiative`_.

> It allows visitors to switch the type of password field to text and vice versa.

Reviewer 2: We'll want to add a short gif to the docs right here

Author: sure, on it 👍🏼

Author: GIF added 👍🏼

Installation
------------

Before you start, make sure you have `StimulusBundle configured in your app`_.

Then, install this bundle using Composer and Symfony Flex:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/ux-toggle-password

If you're using WebpackEncore, install your assets and restart Encore (not
needed if you're using AssetMapper):

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ npm install --force
    $ npm run watch

    # or use yarn
    $ yarn install --force
    $ yarn watch

Usage
-----

Any ``PasswordType`` can be transformed into a toggle password field by adding the ``toggle`` option::

    // ...
    use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\PasswordType;

    class CredentialFormType extends AbstractType
    {
        public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
        {
            $builder
                // ...
                ->add('password', PasswordType::class, ['toggle' => true])
                // ...
            ;
        }

        // ...
    }

> Customizing labels and icons

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customizing Labels and Icons
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Symfony UX TogglePassword uses English by default and SVG icons from `Heroicons`_ for the toggle button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The field uses the words "Show" and "Hide" by default and SVG icons from `Heroicons`_ for the toggle button.
```

I'm removing the part about English because if you need to translate, the more important thing is setting up the translations, which is mentioned below.

You can customize them by passing ``hidden_label``, ``visible_label``, ``hidden_icon`` and ``visible_icon`` options
to the field (use ``null`` to disable label or icon)::

    // ...
    use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\PasswordType;

    class CredentialFormType extends AbstractType
    {
        public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
        {
            $builder
                // ...
                ->add('password', PasswordType::class, [
                    'toggle' => true,
                    'hidden_label' => 'Masquer',
                    'visible_label' => 'Afficher',
                    'visible_icon' => null,
                    'hidden_icon' => null,
                ])
                // ...
            ;
        }

        // ...
    }

.. note::

   *Note*: Translation is supported for both label options.
   You can either use a translation key string (and provide a translation domain with the ``toggle_translation_domain`` option)
   or a ``Symfony\Component\Translation\TranslatableMessage`` object.
   Passing ``false`` to the ``toggle_translation_domain`` option will disable translation for the labels.

> Customizing the design

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customizing the Design
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Symfony UX TogglePassword provides a default stylesheet in order to ease

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The package provides a default stylesheet in order to ease
```

usage. You can disable it to add your own design if you wish.

In ``assets/controllers.json``, disable the default stylesheet by
switching the ``@symfony/ux-toggle-password/dist/style.min.css`` autoimport to
``false``:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "controllers": {
            "@symfony/ux-toggle-password": {
                "toggle-password": {
                    "enabled": true,
                    "fetch": "eager",
                    "autoimport": {
                        "@symfony/ux-toggle-password/dist/style.min.css": false
                    }
                }
            }
        },
        "entrypoints": []
    }

.. note::

   *Note*: you should put the value to ``false`` and not remove the line
   so that Symfony Flex won't try to add the line again in the future.

Once done, the default stylesheet won't be used anymore and you can
implement your own CSS on top of the TogglePassword.

You can also only customize specific TogglePassword elements by overriding the default classes.

> Simply add your custom class name(s) using the ``button_classes`` option for the toggle element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add your custom class name(s) using the ``button_classes`` option for the toggle element.
```

A ``toggle_container_classes`` option is also available to customize the container form theme element::

    // ...
    use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\PasswordType;

    class CredentialFormType extends AbstractType
    {
        public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
        {
            $builder
                // ...
                ->add('password', PasswordType::class, [
                    'toggle' => true,
                    'button_classes' => ['btn', 'primary', 'my-custom-class'],
                    'toggle_container_classes' => ['input-group-text', 'my-custom-container'],
                ])
                // ...
            ;
        }

        // ...
    }

Extend the Default Behavior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Symfony UX TogglePassword allows you to extend its default behavior using a

Reviewer 2: If you need to additional control from JavaScript, you can leverage a few events dispatched by this package:

custom Stimulus controller:

.. code-block:: javascript

>     // my-toggle-password_controller.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // assets/controllers/my-toggle-password_controller.js
```

    import { Controller } from '@hotwired/stimulus';

    export default class extends Controller {
        connect() {
            this.element.addEventListener('toggle-password:connect', this._onConnect);
            this.element.addEventListener('toggle-password:toggle', this._onToggle);
        }

        disconnect() {
            // You should always remove listeners when the controller is disconnected to avoid side-effects
            this.element.removeEventListener('toggle-password:connect', this._onConnect);
            this.element.removeEventListener('toggle-password:toggle', this._onToggle);
        }

        _onConnect(event) {

>             // The TogglePassword was just created

Reviewer 2: Show a quick example of the relevant `event.detail` stuff they will have access to
